Add a new blog post: How to use HF endpoints to run Concrete-ML privacy-preserving ML models. (#1885)
huggingface/blog: concrete-ml-inference-on-endpoints-fhe.md

From the start, we wanted to pre-compile some FHE-friendly networks and make them available somewhere on the internet, allowing users to use them trivially. We are ready today! And not in a random place on the internet, but directly on Hugging Face.

More precisely, we use Hugging Face [Endpoints](https://huggingface.co/docs/inference-endpoints/en/index) and [custom inference handlers](https://huggingface.co/docs/inference-endpoints/en/guides/custom_handler), to be able to store our Concrete ML models and let users deploy on HF machines in one click. At the end of this blog post, you will understand how to use pre-compiled models and how to prepare your pre-compiled models. This blog can also be considered as another tutorial for custom inference handlers.

## Deploying a pre-compiled model

> Let's start with deploying an FHE-friendly model (prepared by Zama or third parties - see "Preparing your own pre-compiled model" section below for learning how to prepare yours).

Author: Note to self: I still need to add a link to the other section

> title: "Running Privacy-Preserving Inferences on Hugging Face EndPoints"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Running Privacy-Preserving Inferences on Hugging Face Endpoints"
```

Author: yes done

thumbnail: /blog/assets/concrete-ml-inference-on-endpoints-fhe/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: Benoit Chevallier-Mames
  guest: true
---

> 

Reviewer: All assets, except the thumbnail, should be hosted in https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/tree/main/blog to make this git repo light

Author: I have tried to create a new directory (https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/commit/ccafc29d6a0eff975419c2dfe7744e35cc5dffb1) but pretty sure that's not the right way. Do I need special rights to create a directory? @osanseviero

Author: https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/discussions/316 should make it, I guess

Author: I just need now to know how to change the eg 

![Alt text](assets/fhe-endpoints/inference_endpoint.png "Inference Endpoint (dedicated)")

and then I push it

Author: last remaining change to do, I think

Author: could you have https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/discussions/316 merged please, @osanseviero @pcuenca ?

# Running Privacy-Preserving Inferences on Hugging Face EndPoints

<!-- {blog_metadata} -->
<!-- {authors} -->

> 

Reviewer: Please add a 

```
> [!NOTE] This is a guest blog post by the Zama team. Zama is ...
```

Author: sure, done

> 

Author: removed!

> Eighteen months ago, Zama started [Concrete ML](https://github.com/zama-ai/concrete-ml), our privacy-preserving ML framework, with bindings to traditional ML frameworks such as scikit-learn, ONNX, torch and tensorflow. To ensure privacy for users' data, we use Fully Homomorphic Encryption (FHE), which is a cryptographic tool that allows us to make computations directly over encrypted data, without ever knowing the private key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Eighteen months ago, Zama started [Concrete ML](https://github.com/zama-ai/concrete-ml), a privacy-preserving ML framework with bindings to traditional ML frameworks such as scikit-learn, ONNX, torch, and TensorFlow. To ensure privacy for users' data, Zama uses Fully Homomorphic Encryption (FHE), a cryptographic tool that allows us to make direct computations over encrypted data, without ever knowing the private key.
```

Author: sure, taken (both!)

Author: sorry I understood too late that it would be easier to directly commit your proposed changes

> From the start, we wanted to be able to pre-compile some FHE-friendly networks and make them available somewhere on the internet, for users to be able to use them trivially. We are ready today! And not in a random place on the internet, but directly on [Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co), the place to be for anything related to [open-source machine learning](https://github.com/huggingface)!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the start, we wanted to pre-compile some FHE-friendly networks and make them available somewhere on the internet, allowing users to use them trivially. We are ready today! And not in a random place on the internet, but directly on Hugging Face.
```

Author: sure

> More precisely, we use Hugging Face [endpoints](https://huggingface.co/docs/inference-endpoints/en/index) and [custom inference handlers](https://huggingface.co/docs/inference-endpoints/en/guides/custom_handler), to be able to store our Concrete ML models and let users deploy on HF machines in one click. At the end of our blog, readers should both understand how to use pre-compiled models and how to prepare their own pre-compiled models. This blog can also be considered as another tutorial for custom inference handlers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More precisely, we use Hugging Face [Endpoints](https://huggingface.co/docs/inference-endpoints/en/index) and [custom inference handlers](https://huggingface.co/docs/inference-endpoints/en/guides/custom_handler), to be able to store our Concrete ML models and let users deploy on HF machines in one click. At the end of this blog post, readers should understand how to use pre-compiled models and how to prepare their pre-compiled models. This blog can also be considered as another tutorial for custom inference handlers.
```

Author: done, for both

> ## Deploying a pre-compiled model

Reviewer: Consider adding a table of contents before this

Author: so I do nothing, right?

> Let's start with how to deploy an FHE-friendly model (prepared by Zama or by third parties - see "Preparing your own pre-compiled model" section below for learning how to prepare yours).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's start with deploying an FHE-friendly model (prepared by Zama or third parties - see "Preparing your own pre-compiled model" section below for learning how to prepare yours).
```

Author: Changed the text.

Author: I'm ok adding the link to the section but a bit unsure how to know the (#...) link. Could you help please, @pcuenca ?

> First, look for the model you want to deploy: We have pre-compiled a [bunch of models](https://huggingface.co/zama-fhe?#models) on Zama's HF page. Let’s suppose you have chosen [concrete-ml-encrypted-decisiontree](https://huggingface.co/zama-fhe/concrete-ml-encrypted-decisiontree): As explained in the description, this pre-compiled model allows to detect spams without looking at the message content in the clear.

Reviewer: Unrelated to the blog, but I would suggest to add `fhe` or `concrete-ml` as a tag in the model card metadata for those models supported with it.

Author: Agreed, thanks for the suggestion. Let me have this as an internal issue for us (I guess you don't want that in HF issues). https://github.com/zama-ai/concrete-ml/issues/596

> First, look for the model you want to deploy: We have pre-compiled a [bunch of models](https://huggingface.co/zama-fhe?#models) on Zama's HF page. Let’s suppose you have chosen [concrete-ml-encrypted-decisiontree](https://huggingface.co/zama-fhe/concrete-ml-encrypted-decisiontree): As explained in the description, this pre-compiled model allows to detect spams without looking at the message content in the clear.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, look for the model you want to deploy: We have pre-compiled a [bunch of models](https://huggingface.co/zama-fhe?#models) on Zama's HF page. Let's suppose you have chosen [concrete-ml-encrypted-decisiontree](https://huggingface.co/zama-fhe/concrete-ml-encrypted-decisiontree): As explained in the description, this pre-compiled model allows you to detect spam without looking at the message content in the clear.
```

Author: yes done

Like any other model available on the Hugging Face platform, select _Deploy_ and then _Inference Endpoint (dedicated)_:

![Alt text](assets/concrete-ml-inference-on-endpoints-fhe/one.png "Inference Endpoint (dedicated)")

> Next, choose the endpoint name or the region, and most importantly the CPU (Concrete ML models do not use GPUs for now, we are [working](https://www.zama.ai/post/tfhe-rs-v0-5) on it) as well as the best machine available - in the example below we chose 8 vCPU. Now click on _Create Endpoint_ and wait for the initialization to finish.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, choose the endpoint name or the region, and most importantly, the CPU (Concrete ML models do not use GPUs for now; we are [working](https://www.zama.ai/post/tfhe-rs-v0-5) on it) as well as the best machine available - in the example below we chose eight vCPU. Now click on _Create Endpoint_ and wait for the initialization to finish.
```

Author: yes

![Alt text](assets/concrete-ml-inference-on-endpoints-fhe/two.png "Create Endpoint")

> After just a few seconds, the endpoint is deployed and your privacy-preserving model is ready to operate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After a few seconds, the Endpoint is deployed, and your privacy-preserving model is ready to operate.
```

Author: yes

![Alt text](assets/concrete-ml-inference-on-endpoints-fhe/three.png "Endpoint is created")

> Note: Don’t forget to delete the endpoint (or at least pause it) when you are no longer using it, or else it will cost more than anticipated.

Reviewer: You can use `> [!NOTE] ` here as well

Author: thx

> ## Using the endpoint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using the Endpoint
```

Author: sure

### Installing the client side

> Now, obviously, the goal is not only to deploy your endpoint, but to let users play with it. For that, users need to clone the repository on their computer. This is done by selecting _Clone Repository_, in the dropdown menu:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal is not only to deploy your Endpoint but also to let users play with it. For that, users need to clone the repository on their computer. This is done by selecting _Clone Repository_, in the dropdown menu:
```

Author: done for the text. And for https://github.com/huggingface/blog/pull/1885/files#r1535328526 comment, I understand it's ok, right?

![Alt text](assets/concrete-ml-inference-on-endpoints-fhe/four.png "Clone Repository")

They will be given a small command line that they can run in their terminal:

```bash
git clone https://huggingface.co/zama-fhe/concrete-ml-encrypted-decisiontree
```

> Once the command inside their terminal, they can go on the `concrete-ml-encrypted-decisiontree` directory and open `play_with_endpoint.py` with their editor. Here, they will find the line with `API_URL = …`, and should replace it with the new URL of the endpoint created in the previous section. In our case, it would be:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the command is done, we can go to the `concrete-ml-encrypted-decisiontree` directory and open `play_with_endpoint.py` with their editor. Here, they will find the line with `API_URL = …` and should replace it with the new URL of the endpoint created in the previous section. In our case, it would be:
```

Author: yes done

```bash
API_URL = "https://tcipez38maclnbm6.eu-west-1.aws.endpoints.huggingface.cloud”
```

> In your case, fill it in with with _your_ entrypoint’s URL. Also, define an [access token](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/security-tokens) and store it in an environment variable:

Author: OK I need to have a full re-read, I'll do it

```bash
export HF_TOKEN=[your token hf_XX..XX]
```

> Lastly, your machine needs to have Concrete ML installed locally: Make a virtual environment, source it and install the necessary dependencies:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lastly, your machine needs to have Concrete ML installed locally: Make a virtual environment, source it, and install the necessary dependencies:
```

Author: done

```bash
python3.9 -m venv .venv
pip install -U setuptools pip wheel
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Running inferences

> Now, you can run the inferences on the entry point, by running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, you can run the inferences on the entrypoint by running:
```

Author: I'll go for @pcuenca suggestion (with Entrypoint), if you don't mind

> Now, you can run the inferences on the entry point, by running:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, you can run inference on the Endpoint launching the script:
```

Author: done

```bash
python play_with_endpoint.py
```

It should generate some logs similar to the following:

```bash
Sending 0-th piece of the key (remaining size is 71984.14 kbytes)
Storing the key in the database under uid=3307376977
Sending 1-th piece of the key (remaining size is 0.02 kbytes)
Size of the payload: 0.23 kilobytes
for 0-th input, prediction=0 with expected 0 in 3.242 seconds
for 1-th input, prediction=0 with expected 0 in 3.612 seconds
for 2-th input, prediction=0 with expected 0 in 4.765 seconds

(...)

for 688-th input, prediction=0 with expected 1 in 3.176 seconds
for 689-th input, prediction=1 with expected 1 in 4.027 seconds
for 690-th input, prediction=0 with expected 0 in 4.329 seconds
Accuracy on 691 samples is 0.8958031837916064
Total time: 2873.860 seconds
Duration per inference: 4.123 seconds
```

### Adapting to your application or needs

> If you edit `play_with_endpoint.py`, you’ll see that we iterate over different samples of the test dataset, and run encrypted inferences directly on the endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you edit `play_with_endpoint.py`, you'll see that we iterate over different samples of the test dataset and run encrypted inferences directly on the Endpoint.
```

Author: done

> If you edit `play_with_endpoint.py`, you’ll see that we iterate over different samples of the test dataset, and run encrypted inferences directly on the endpoint.

Reviewer: Please capitalize `Endpoint` consistently

Author: yes

Author: there is no more "endpoint" except in links

    # Prepare the payload
    payload = {
        "inputs": "fake",
        "encrypted_inputs": to_json(encrypted_inputs),
        "method": "inference",
        "uid": uid,
    }

    if is_first:
        print(f"Size of the payload: {sys.getsizeof(payload) / 1024:.2f} kilobytes")
        is_first = False

    # Run the inference on HF servers
    duration -= time.time()
    duration_inference = -time.time()
    encrypted_prediction = query(payload)
    duration += time.time()
    duration_inference += time.time()

    encrypted_prediction = from_json(encrypted_prediction)

    # Decrypt the result and dequantize
    prediction_proba = fhemodel_client.deserialize_decrypt_dequantize(encrypted_prediction)[0]
    prediction = np.argmax(prediction_proba)

    if verbose:
        print(
            f"for {i}-th input, {prediction=} with expected {Y_test[i]} in {duration_inference:.3f} seconds"
        )

    # Measure accuracy
    nb_good += Y_test[i] == prediction
```

Of course, this is just an example of the entrypoint's usage. Developers are encouraged to adapt this example to their own use-case or application.

### Under the hood

> Please note that all of this is done thanks to the flexibility of [custom handlers](https://huggingface.co/docs/inference-endpoints/en/guides/custom_handler) and we express our gratitude to the Hugging Face developers for offering such flexibility. The mechanism is defined in `handler.py`. As explained in the Hugging Face documentation, you can define the `__call__` method of `EndpointHandler` pretty much as you want: In our case, we have defined a `method` parameter, which can be `save_key` (to save FHE evaluation keys), `append_key` (to save FHE evaluation keys piece by piece if the key is too large to be sent in one single call) and finally `inference` (to run FHE inferences). These methods are used to set the evaluation key once, and then run all the inferences, one by one, as seen in `play_with_endpoint.py`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that all of this is done thanks to the flexibility of [custom handlers](https://huggingface.co/docs/inference-endpoints/en/guides/custom_handler), and we express our gratitude to the Hugging Face developers for offering such flexibility. The mechanism is defined in `handler.py`. As explained in the Hugging Face documentation, you can define the `__call__` method of `EndpointHandler` pretty much as you want: In our case, we have defined a `method` parameter, which can be `save_key` (to save FHE evaluation keys), `append_key` (to save FHE evaluation keys piece by piece if the key is too large to be sent in one single call) and finally `inference` (to run FHE inferences). These methods are used to set the evaluation key once and then run all the inferences, one by one, as seen in `play_with_endpoint.py`.
```

Author: yes

### Limits

> One can remark however that keys are stored in the RAM of the endpoint, which is not convenient for a production environment: at each restart, the keys are lost and need to be re-sent; Plus, when you have several machines to handle huge traffic, this RAM is not shared between the machines. Finally, the fact that the available CPU machines only provide 8 vCPUs at most for endpoints makes the execution time worse than if deployed on AWS machines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One can remark, however, that keys are stored in the RAM of the Endpoint, which is not convenient for a production environment: at each restart, the keys are lost and need to be re-sent. Plus, when you have several machines to handle massive traffic, this RAM is not shared between the machines. Finally, the available CPU machines only provide eight vCPUs at most for endpoints, making the execution time worse than if deployed on AWS machines.
```

Reviewer 2: `making the execution time worse than if deployed on AWS machines` -> `which could be a limit for high-load applications`

> ## Preparing your own pre-compiled model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Preparing your pre-compiled model
```

Author: done

Now that you know how easy it is to deploy a pre-compiled model, you may want to prepare yours. For this, you can fork [one of the repositories we have prepared](https://huggingface.co/zama-fhe?#models). All the model categories supported by Concrete ML ([linear](https://docs.zama.ai/concrete-ml/built-in-models/linear) models, [tree-based](https://docs.zama.ai/concrete-ml/built-in-models/tree) models, built-in [MLP](https://docs.zama.ai/concrete-ml/built-in-models/neural-networks), [torch](https://docs.zama.ai/concrete-ml/deep-learning/torch_support) models) have at least one example, that can be used as a template for new pre-compiled models.

Then, edit `creating_models.py`, and change the ML task to be the one you want to tackle in your pre-compiled model: for example, if you started with [concrete-ml-encrypted-decisiontree](https://huggingface.co/zama-fhe/concrete-ml-encrypted-decisiontree), change the dataset and the model kind.

> As explained earlier, you need to have installed Concrete ML to prepare your own pre-compiled model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As explained earlier, you must have installed Concrete ML to prepare your pre-compiled model.
```

Author: done

> Now you can launch `python creating_models.py`. This will train a model and create the necessary development files (`client.zip`, `server.zip` and `versions.json`) in the `compiled_model` directory. As explained in the [documentation](https://docs.zama.ai/concrete-ml/deployment/client_server), these files contain your pre-compiled model. If you have any issue, you can get support on the [fhe.org discord](http://discord.fhe.org).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you can launch `python creating_models.py`. This will train a model and create the necessary development files (`client.zip`, `server.zip`, and `versions.json`) in the `compiled_model` directory. As explained in the [documentation](https://docs.zama.ai/concrete-ml/deployment/client_server), these files contain your pre-compiled model. If you have any issues, you can get support on the [fhe.org discord](http://discord.fhe.org).
```

Author: done

> Last step is to modify `play_with_endpoint.py`, to also deal with the same ML task as in `creating_models.py`: set the dataset accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The last step is to modify `play_with_endpoint.py` to also deal with the same ML task as in `creating_models.py`: set the dataset accordingly.
```

> Now, you can save this directory with the `compiled_model` directory and files, and your modifications in `creating_models.py` and `play_with_endpoint.py` on Hugging Face models. Certainly, you will need to run some tests and make slight adjustments for it to work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, you can save this directory with the `compiled_model` directory and files, as well as your modifications in `creating_models.py` and `play_with_endpoint.py` on Hugging Face models. Certainly, you will need to run some tests and make slight adjustments for it to work.
```

Author: done

> ## Available pre-compiled models today

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Pre-compiled models available today
```

For now, we have prepared a few pre-compiled models as examples, hoping the community will extend this soon.

> | Model kind  | Dataset  | Execution time on HF endpoint  |

Reviewer: As mentioned before, if we tag the models it will be quite easy for discoverability

|---|---|---|
| [Logistic Regression](https://huggingface.co/zama-fhe/concrete-ml-encrypted-logreg) | Synthetic  | 0.4 sec |
[DecisionTree](https://huggingface.co/zama-fhe/concrete-ml-encrypted-decisiontree) | Spam | 2.0 sec
[QNN](https://huggingface.co/zama-fhe/concrete-ml-encrypted-qnn) | Iris | 3.7 sec
[CNN](https://huggingface.co/zama-fhe/concrete-ml-encrypted-deeplearning) | MNIST | 24 sec

> Keep in mind that CPU machines available as HF endpoints today are not as powerful as AWS' machines (generally m6i or hpc7a), so complex models' execution time is expected to be slower. Hopefully, more powerful machines will soon be available on Hugging Face endpoints to improve these timings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Keep in mind that there's a limited set of configuration options in Hugging Face for CPU-backed Endpoints (up to 8 vCPU with 16 GB of RAM today). Depending on your production requirements and model characteristics, execution times could be faster on more powerful cloud instances. Hopefully, more powerful machines will soon be available on Hugging Face endpoints to improve these timings.
```

There are also Intel Xeon instances if you deploy the Endpoints on Microsoft Azure, did you test them?

I'd also explain that the models currently supported by Zama are meant to run on CPU and don't support GPU parallelization.

Author: ok still to be done

Author: text is added, I need to test it on Azure.

Author: some problems to make it work on Azure and Google, I'll ask the support. Maybe it's independent of this blog post and we can continue the merge process, @pcuenca ?

## Conclusion and next steps

> In this blog post, we have shown that custom endpoints are pretty easy yet powerful to use: what we do in Concrete ML is pretty different from the regular workflow of ML practitioners but still, we are able to accommodate the custom endpoints to deal with most of our needs. Kudos to Hugging Face engineers for developing such a generic solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this blog post, we have shown that custom endpoints are pretty easy yet powerful to use. What we do in Concrete ML is pretty different from the regular workflow of ML practitioners, but we are still able to accommodate the custom endpoints to deal with most of our needs. Kudos to Hugging Face engineers for developing such a generic solution.
```

Author: hum, not sure why it has not been committed directly, I'm doing it by hand

Author: done

We explained how:

- Developers can create their own pre-compiled models and make them available on Hugging Face models.
- Companies can deploy developers' pre-compiled models and make them available to their users via HF endpoints.
- Users can use these endpoints to run their ML tasks over encrypted data.

> To go further, it would be useful to have more powerful machines available on Hugging Face endpoints, to make inferences faster. Also, we could imagine that Concrete ML becomes more integrated on Hugging Face’s interface, and have a _Private-Preserving Inference Endpoint_ button, which would simplify developers' life even more. Finally, for an integration in more server machines, it could be useful to have a way to share a state between machines, and keep this state non-volatile (FHE inference keys would be stored there).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To go further, it would be useful to have more powerful machines available on Hugging Face endpoints to make inferences faster. Also, we could imagine that Concrete ML becomes more integrated into Hugging Face's interface and has a _Private-Preserving Inference Endpoint_ button, simplifying developers' lives even more. Finally, for integration in more server machines, it could be helpful to have a way to share a state between machines and keep this state non-volatile (FHE inference keys would be stored there).
```

Author: same thing, the commit suggestion doesn't seem to have worked. Doing it by hand

> Zama libraries [Concrete](https://github.com/zama-ai/concrete) and [Concrete-ML](https://github.com/zama-ai/concrete-ml) (Don't forget to star the repos on GitHub ⭐️💛) allow straightforward ML model building and conversion to the FHE equivalent to being able to compute and predict over encrypted data.

Reviewer 2: Maybe we could have a "Resources" section before the conclusion where we can put the links to the repos and one of the introductory posts you authored for people interested in how this works.

Author: sure, let me add that

Author: added, are you ok with the change?

Now, you can save this directory with the `compiled_model` directory and files, as well as your modifications in `creating_models.py` and `play_with_endpoint.py` on Hugging Face models. Certainly, you will need to run some tests and make slight adjustments for it to work.

## Pre-compiled models available today

For now, we have prepared a few pre-compiled models as examples, hoping the community will extend this soon.

| Model kind  | Dataset  | Execution time on HF Endpoint  |
|---|---|---|
| [Logistic Regression](https://huggingface.co/zama-fhe/concrete-ml-encrypted-logreg) | Synthetic  | 0.4 sec |
[DecisionTree](https://huggingface.co/zama-fhe/concrete-ml-encrypted-decisiontree) | Spam | 2.0 sec
[QNN](https://huggingface.co/zama-fhe/concrete-ml-encrypted-qnn) | Iris | 3.7 sec
[CNN](https://huggingface.co/zama-fhe/concrete-ml-encrypted-deeplearning) | MNIST | 24 sec

Keep in mind that CPU machines available as HF Endpoints today are not as powerful as AWS' machines (generally m6i or hpc7a), so complex models' execution time is expected to be slower. Hopefully, more powerful machines will soon be available on Hugging Face Endpoints to improve these timings.

> # Additional resources:

Author: new section per your request, good for you?
